Section 1.1: Introduction 

1. In this book, we will go through practical case studies showing how different alternative data
sources can be profitably employed for different purposes within finance. 

Section 1.2: What is alternative data
1. It is data with at least one of the following features:
  1.1 Less commonly used by the market participants.
  1.2 Tends to be more costly to collect and hence more expensively to purchase.
  1.3 Usually outside financial markets.
  1.4 Has shorter history compared with traditional financial data.
  1.5 More challenging to use. ( In other words, more work need to be done before using i.e. cleaning , missing data processing, anamolies and outlier check etc. 

2. In recent years, the alternative data landscape has significantly expanded. 
  2.1 Better and more device to generate data. 
  2.2 Data can be recorded automatically instead of manually.
  2.3 Cost of data storage is coming down. 
  2.4 "Exhaust data" which refer to data that is generated by the process whose primary purpose if not to collect or generate and sell the data. 
    2.4.1 One example could be the quote provided by the OTC traders. These data might not be reflected on real trading result. But they might be collected and has some extra information. 
    2.4.2 Text data generated daily by news agencies. 

Section 1.3 Segmentation of alternative data
1. Who generates the data
  1.1 Physical processes e.g.emperature or luminosity of the place.
  1.2 Individuals e.g. Internet traffic and location data 
  1.3 Institutions e.g. market activity
2. Four stages of data transformation:
  2.1 Raw data
  2.2 Processed data
  2.3 signal
  2.4 strategy

Section 1.4 Many Vs of the big data
1. Volume of the data
  1.1 Refer to the amount of the data generated.
  1.2 It is increasing. 
2. Variety of data
  2.1 Refer to both diversity of the data and format of the data.
  2.2 It is increasing.
3. Velocity of the data
  3.1 Refer to the speed of the data generating.
  3.2 It is increasing.
4. Variability of the data
  4.1 Refer to both the regularity and the inconsistency of the data.
  4.2 It is increasing.
5 Veracity of the data
  5.1 Refer to the confidence or the trust of the data source.
  5.2 It is decreasing.
6. Validity of the data
  6.1 Refer to how confidence of the data is for its intended use. 
  6.2 It is increasing.
7. Value of the data
  7.1 Refer to the business impact of the data.
  7.2 It is increasing. 

8 Some other Vs:
  8.1 Vulnerability, Volatility, and Visualization.

Section 1.5 Why alternative data
1. Provide investors with insights that can be quickly monetized (a time frame in  the order of months, rather than
years)
2. Can be used to flag potential risks.
3. Can be used to anticipate the performance of the company. 
4. Can be used as an complement, but not substitute of the traditional data.

Section 1.6 Who is using alternative data set
1. Quantitative hedge funds have been at the forefront of the usage of and investment in this space.
2. Limit of using alternative data for large asset management firm is their coverage. Usually larger firm has more capital to allocate. 

Section 1.7 Capacity of a strategy and the alternative data set
1. To understand whether other market participants are trading similar strategies.
  1.1 Look at the correlation of the strategy returns against fund returns.
  1.2 Look at positioning and flow data collected from across the market.
2. Transaction cost
  2.1 Not only the spread between execution price and mid price, but also the market impact. 
  2.2 It has been shown with empirical trading data across many different markets, ranging from equities and options to cryptocurrencies, that there is a square root relationship between the size of our orders and the market impact.
  2.3 One simple way to understand the capacity of a strategy is to look at the ratio of returns to transaction costs.
  2.4 It is too labor intensive to deploy large amounts of capital only to niche strategies because it would require a significant amount of research to create and implement many of them.
  2.5 It is too labor intensive to deploy large amounts of capital only to niche strategies because it would require a significant amount of research to create and implement many of them.
  2.6 Hence, they are able to run strategies that trade more often, such as high-frequency trading strategies, or those with more illiquid assets.
3. Properties that are typical of high-capacity strategies
  3.1 Returns are less sensitive to increased transaction costs.
  3.2 Higher amounts of capital can be allocated without negatively impacting returns.
  3.3 Can be traded on a wide variety of tickers.
  3.4 Lower frequency.
  3.5 Higher Sharpe ratio.
4. Properties that are typical of high-capacity strategies
  4.1 Returns are sensitive to transaction costs.
  4.2 Higher amounts of capital will render the strategy loss making.
  4.3 Restricted to a small number of tickers.
  4.4 Higher frequency.
  4.5 Higher Sharpe ratio
5. Why is this concept of strategy capacity important in the context of alternative data?
  5.1 Once we know the approximate amount of capital we can deploy to a strategy, it enables us to understand the dollar value we can make, as opposed to purely the percentage returns.









